## Isolation of Nuclei from Homogenized Plant Tissue

This is from the methods section of Reynoso et al 2017
Nuclei were purified from frozen and pulverized tissue as described previously for Arabidopsis (Wang and Deal, 2015) with only minor modifications, including use of a 30 µm filter to exclude 30 to 70 µm cellular debris from the crude extract and extend centrifugation times. Tissue was resuspended in an ice-cold mortar containing 10 mL of freshly prepared Nuclei Purification Buffer (NPB: 20 mM 3-(N-morpholino) propanesulfonic acid (MOPS), 40 mM NaCl, 90 mM KCl, 2 mM EDTA, 0.5 mM EGTA, 0.5 mM spermidine, 0.2 mM spermine, pH, 7.0) containing 200 µL Protease Inhibitor Cocktail (0.4×, Sigma, P9599) per 50 mL of buffer. The homogenized extracts were filtered through a 30 µM nylon mesh (Celltrics) to remove cell debris and centrifuged at 1000g for 15 min at 4°C to pellet nuclei. Nuclei were resuspended in 1 mL of NPB (this suspension is considered input of the purification), 25 µL were kept for microscopic visualization, and 200 µL for protein electrophoresis and western blot detection. Twenty-five microliters of M-280 streptavidin-coated Dynabeads (∼1.5 × 107 beads; Life Technologies, catalog # 11205D) were added to the nuclei. This mixture was slowly rotated to allow capture of the nuclei in a cold room at 4°C for 30 min. The nuclei/beads suspension was diluted to 14 mL with NPB supplemented with 0.1% (v/v) Triton X-100 (NPB-T), in a 15 mL Falcon tube, mixed thoroughly and placed in a 15 mL magnet (adapted 50 mL tube magnet New England Biolabs (NEB, S1507S)) to capture bead-bound nuclei for 7 min at 4°C. The supernatant was carefully removed using a plastic Pasteur pipette, taking care to remove bubbles to avoid disturbing the beads. Beads were resuspended in 14 mL of cold NPB-T, placed on a rotating mixer for 30 s, and then placed back in the 15 mL magnet to capture the beads-nuclei at 4°C for 7 min. This wash step was repeated and bead-bound nuclei were resuspended in 1 mL of NPB-T and transferred to a new tube. Estimation of nuclei yield and analysis of purity via protein detection and western blot was performed as described previously (Deal and Henikoff, 2011). For RNA extraction, the bead-bound nuclei mixture was placed on a 2 mL tube magnet for 4 min at 4°C to capture the nuclei, which were resuspended in 20 µL NPB before proceeding to the extraction. For comparison, nuclei were isolated without the aid of INTACT according to the protocol described by Choudhary et al. (2009).

